---
title: "Why are Katanas so popular?"
excerpt: "What about other weapons?"
---
I'll be speaking mainly about weapons in the east asian culture (specifically Japanese and Chinese) context. <br/>
In case if you are unaware, a katana is a japanese sword that you have probably see it in any movies with japanese culture,
animes, etc. but why is it so popular? <br/>
[This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QXeNHwsePk0) video highlighted the fact that in other east asian culture such as
chinese culture do not have much sword myth e.g. Excalibur. <br/>

In japanese culture, it is believed that when two swordsmen are equally skilled, their weapon makes a difference and
the weapon itself ties very much to the identity of swordsman. One famous example of sword myth/fiction in chinese culture is the
Green Destiny. It is said that it is indestructible, but in the end the weapon hardly matters as chinese culture emphasise 
more on the skills of he swordsman as opposed to the weapon itself. It is believed that a skilled swordsman is not limited
by the weapons, I think this is because there is a strong martial arts culture in the chinese history. In a sense a sword
is depicted more like a piece of sharp metal more than anything else. <br/>
In chinese cultures they are
The strong connections between the japanese swordsmen and their weapons could be attributed to the Shinto beliefs that 
every object has a soul. Other religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism said that everything is an illusion. 
Ascending above material objects is a sign of enlightenment. <br/> 
<br/>
"The vessel is empty and the emptiness is the vessel." <br/>
Heart Sutra <br/>
<br/>

Ultimately, I think katanas are popular due to the strong connections between the swordsmen's identity (i.e. integrity,
philosophy, belief, morals, ethics, etc.) as they are seen as an extension of of the swordsmen. 